Installing Nessus
It is important to mention that
vulnerability scanners
are generally resource-intensive.
Many of them suggest minimum requirements
that include at least
2 CPU cores as well as 8GB of RAM.
These resource requirements won’t be
necessary for our example.
Although Nessus is not available
in the Kali repositories,
we can manually download
the 64-bit deb file for Kali
from the Tenable website.
Once our download has completed,
we can install the package with apt.
Once the package is installed,
we can start the nessusd service,
then return to our browser and
navigate to port 8834 on localhost.
The default Nessus server port.
We are presented with a certificate error
indicating an unknown certificate issuer,
but this is expected due to the
use of a self-signed certificate.
To accept the self-signed certificate,
we click on Advanced,
and “Add Exception”.
Finally, we can click
“Confirm Security Exception”
to accept the certificate.
Once the page loads, we are prompted
to select a Nessus product.
In this scenario, we are going
to configure Nessus Essentials.
Next, we are prompted to request
an activation code for Nessus Essentials.
Since we have already requested a code,
we can skip this step.
On this page, we’ll paste in
ur activation code to continue.
After activating Nessus, we are prompted
to create a local Nessus user account.
Finally, we need to download
and compile all the plugins.
This can take a significant
amount of time to complete.